# Telegram Chatbot with OpenAI Integration

This project demonstrates the integration of a Telegram chatbot with the OpenAI API for generating responses using natural language processing. The chatbot interacts with users on Telegram and uses OpenAI's Completion API to generate intelligent responses based on user input.

## Prerequisites

To run the project, you need to have the following:

- Python 3.x installed on your machine
- Telegram Bot API key: Obtain the API key by creating a bot on Telegram using the BotFather.
- OpenAI API key: Sign up for OpenAI and obtain an API key.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Krishan-Kant-11/Telegram-Chatbot-with-OpenAI-Integration.git
```
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Install the required dependencies:
4. Set up environment variables:
   - Create a `.env` file in the project root directory.
   - Add the following lines to the `.env` file, replacing `<TELEGRAM_BOT_API_KEY>` and `<OPENAI_API_KEY>` with your respective keys:
```bash
telgramBotKey = <TELEGRAM_BOT_API_KEY>
openAIKey = <OPENAI_API_KEY>
```


## Usage

1. Run the bot:
```bash
python main.py
```
2. Start a conversation with the bot on Telegram by searching for the bot username.
3. The bot will respond to messages with greetings or any other input based on the model's completion generated by the OpenAI API.

## Customization

- Model Selection: The `reply()` function in `bot.py` uses the OpenAI Completion API with the "text-davinci-003" model. You can experiment with different models offered by OpenAI by modifying the `model` parameter.

- Bot Responses: You can customize the bot's responses by modifying the responses generated by the `reply()` function in `bot.py`. Adjust the completion settings, such as temperature and max tokens, to influence the response style and length.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## Acknowledgments

- [Telebot](https://github.com/eternnoir/pyTelegramBotAPI) - Python wrapper for the Telegram Bot API.
- [OpenAI Python](https://github.com/openai/openai-python) - Official Python client library for the OpenAI API.







